[IA-450] refactor docs for image assurance, adding docs for cluster scanner (#676)
tigera/docs: calico-cloud/image-assurance/scanners/cluster-scanner.mdx

---
description: Identify vulnerabilities in Kubernetes clusters.
---

> # Automatically scan using cluster Scanner

Reviewer: For search results, a better title is: Automatically scan images using cluster scanner

Author: fixed with bed5e89

## Big picture

> Automatically scan kubernetes workloads for vulnerabilities using {{prodname}} Image Assurance Cluster Scanner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatically scan Kubernetes workloads for vulnerabilities using {{prodname}} Image Assurance cluster scanner.
```

## Before you begin

**Cluster requirements**

To be included in scan results, cluster must be:

- Using containerd as the container runtime.
- Containerd must be using overlayfs or native file system snapshotter.

> **Image Requirements**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Image requirements**
```

- Workloads must be running an image that has RepoDigest ID

## How to

- [Enable cluster scanner](#enable-the-cluster-scanner)
- [Configure cluster scanner](#configure-cluster-scanner)
- [Disable cluster scanner](#disable-cluster-scanner)

### Enable the cluster scanner

1. In your cluster, enable the cluster scanner by modifying the `imageassurances` custom resource.

   ```shell
      kubectl edit imageassurances default
   ```

2. Set the `clusterScanner` field to `Enabled` and save the file.

> 3. This will deploy the cluster scanner as a daemon set in your cluster. The scanner is deployed as a container inside `tigera-image-assurance-crawdad`

Reviewer: change all occurrences of "daemon set" to "daemonset".

Author: fixed with bed5e89

daemon set. You can verify that the scanner is deployed by verifying that a new container with name `cluster-scanner` is created inside the daemon set.

### Configure cluster scanner

You can configure the cluster scanner with custom settings. To do so, modify the `imageassurances` custom resource.

1. To modify container runtime socket path used by the cluster scanner, set the `criSocketPath` field to the path of the container runtime socket.
The default value is set to `/run/containerd/containerd.sock`.

> 2. To modify containerd file system root path modify `containerdVolumeMountPath`. The default value is set to `/var/lib/containerd/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To modify the containerd file system root path, modify `containerdVolumeMountPath`. The default value is set to `/var/lib/containerd/`.
```

---
description: Identify vulnerabilities in workloads to Kubernetes clusters.
---

> # Automatically Scan images for vulnerabilities using Cluster Scanner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Automatically scan images for vulnerabilities using cluster scanner
```

## Big picture

> Automatically scan kubernetes workloads for vulnerabilities using {{prodname}} Image Assurance Cluster Scanner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatically scan Kubernetes workloads for vulnerabilities using {{prodname}} Image Assurance cluster scanner.
```

- Create alerts on high-severity vulnerabilities so you can delegate remediation efforts to the appropriate team

## About Image Assurance

Image Assurance is based on the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) system, which provides a catalog of publicly-known security vulnerabilities and exposures. Known vulnerabilities are identified by a unique CVE ID based on the year it was reported (for example, CVE-2021-44228).

Image Assurance provides a cluster scanner (deployed as a daemon set) to scan images. When enabled inside the cluster, it automatically scans images for vulnerabilities and displays them in management UI. Scanned image content includes:

- Libraries and content (for example, python, ruby gems, jars and go)
- Packages (OS and non-OS)
- Image layer

## Before you begin

**Update your cluster**

Update your cluster to get the latest version of Image Assurance:

1. Navigate to the **Managed Clusters** page.
2. Select the cluster from the list, and click **Reinstall**.
3. Copy the updated installation script command and run it against your cluster.

**Cluster requirements**

To be included in scan results, cluster must be:

> - Using containerd as the container runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using containerd as the container runtime
```

> - Containerd must be using overlayfs or native file system snapshotter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Containerd must be using overlays or native file system snapshotter
```

> **Image Requirements**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Image requirements**
```

- Workloads must be running an image that has RepoDigest ID

## How to

> - [Enable cluster scanner](#enable-the-cluster-scanner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enable the cluster scanner](#enable-the-cluster-scanner)
```

> - [Configure cluster scanner](#configure-cluster-scanner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configure the cluster scanner](#configure-the-cluster-scanner)
```

> - [Disable cluster scanner](#disable-cluster-scanner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Disable the cluster scanner](#disable-the-cluster-scanner)
```

### Enable the cluster scanner

1. In your cluster, enable the cluster scanner by modifying the `image-assurance` custom resource.

>    ```shell

Reviewer: ### 
```suggestion
   ```bash
```

      kubectl edit imageassurance image-assurance default
   ```

2. Set the `clusterScanner` field to `Enabled` and save the file.

> 3. This will deploy the cluster scanner as a daemon set in your cluster. The scanner is deployed as a container inside `tigera-image-assurance-crawdad`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Enabling deploys the cluster scanner as a daemonset in your cluster. The scanner is deployed as a container inside the `tigera-image-assurance-crawdad`daemonset. To verify that the scanner is deployed, verify that a new container with the name, `cluster-scanner` is created inside the daemonset.
```

daemon set. You can verify that the scanner is deployed by verifying that a new container with name `cluster-scanner` is created inside the daemon set.

> ### Configure cluster scanner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure the cluster scanner
```

> You can configure the cluster scanner with custom settings. To do so, modify the `image-assurance` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the cluster scanner with custom settings, modify the `image-assurance` custom resource.
```

> 1. To modify container runtime socket path used by the cluster scanner, set the `criSocketPath` field to the path of the container runtime socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To modify the container runtime socket path used by the cluster scanner, set the field, `criSocketPath` to the path of the container runtime socket.
```

The default value is set to `/run/containerd/containerd.sock`.

### Disable the cluster scanner

> 1. You can disable the cluster scanner by modifying the `image-assurance` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To disable the cluster scanner, modify the `image-assurance` custom resource.
```

>    ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
```

    kubectl edit imageassurance image-assurance default
   ```

> 2. Set the `clusterScanner` field to `Disabled` and save the file. This will delete the cluster scanner container from the daemon set from your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the `clusterScanner` field to `Disabled` and save the file. This deletes the cluster scanner container from the daemonset from your cluster.
```

---

> description: Identify vulnerabilities in workloads to Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 2: You'll want to change these to be appropriate for each page.

Author: fixed with https://github.com/tigera/docs/pull/676/commits/16d2c8cab26cc48b8ee6446e1aa77b017e8294ac

---

# Automatically scan images for vulnerabilities using cluster scanner

## Big picture

Automatically scan Kubernetes workloads for vulnerabilities using {{prodname}} Image Assurance cluster scanner.

## Value

{{prodname}} Image Assurances cluster scanner helps you scan workloads running inside the cluster for vulnerabilities without much configuration. With Cluster Scanner you can:

> - Scan kubernetes workload images for vulnerabilities automatically as and when they are deployed.

Reviewer 2: > - Scan kubernetes workload images for vulnerabilities automatically **as and** when they are deployed."

There's something grammatically incorrect here (in the **bold**). You probably don't even need that piece at all. 

You can just say: 
> - Scan Kubernetes workload images for vulnerabilities automatically when they are deployed."

Note: You should also capitalize Kubernetes.

Author: fixed with https://github.com/tigera/docs/pull/676/commits/16d2c8cab26cc48b8ee6446e1aa77b017e8294ac

- View vulnerabilities for the workloads in the {{prodname}} management UI
- Assess the impact of newly-found vulnerabilities and prioritize remediation efforts
- Create exceptions to ignore specific vulnerabilities

> - Create alerts on high-severity vulnerabilities so you can delegate remediation efforts to the appropriate team

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should include these last two bullet points (exceptions and alerts) here since they are separate features and aren't actually mentioned this page.

Reviewer 2: See my other [comment here](https://github.com/tigera/docs/pull/676/files#r1209499128).

If this is a common boiler plate intro section, I think it should be the same text on all pages and also be links for the user to jump to the relevant part in the docs.

Author: We could possibly have a new `Getting Started` or `About Image Assurance` page for the boiler plate that can serve as a landing page for Image Assurance. Lmk if yo want to do that.

Author: I added an `overview` section for the boiler plate PTAL cc: @bmckercher123

## About Image Assurance

Image Assurance is based on the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) system, which provides a catalog of publicly-known security vulnerabilities and exposures. Known vulnerabilities are identified by a unique CVE ID based on the year it was reported (for example, CVE-2021-44228).

Image Assurance provides a cluster scanner (deployed as a daemon set) to scan images. When enabled inside the cluster, it automatically scans images for vulnerabilities and displays them in management UI. Scanned image content includes:

- Libraries and content (for example, python, ruby gems, jars and go)
- Packages (OS and non-OS)

> - Image layer

Reviewer 2: @penkeysuresh I wonder if we could perhaps standardize this section between the three pages and then create a separate mdx template that we can import into each of the three pages. Single source of truth.
